Revision of default env (#22134)
MystenLabs/sui: external-crates/move/crates/move-package-alt/DESIGN.md

[move]
version = 4

# The `pinned` section contains a dependency graph for each environment. Each node in
# the graph contains the pinned dependency location, a digest of the manifest of the dependency (to
# detect local changes), and a set of outgoing edges. The edges are labeled by the name of the dependency.
#
# The identities of the nodes are arbitrary, but it seems nice to generate them from the package

> # names that dependencies declare for themselves. Adding numbers to disambiguate if there are 
> # collision should be added.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# names that dependencies declare for themselves (adding numbers to disambiguate if there are 
# collisions).
```

pinned, because the branch may be moved to a different commit, which might have different source
code. To pin this kind of dependency, we must replace the branch name with a commit hash -
downloading the same commit should always produce the same source code.

Although we expect pinned dependencies to not change, there are a few situations where they could.
One possiblity is local dependencies - if a single repository contains both a dependency and the
depending project, we would want changes in the dependency to be reflected immediately in the
depending project. Moreover, this doesn't cause inconsistencies in CI because presumably those
changes would be committed together. Another example would be if a user wants to temporarily change
a cached dependency during debugging to rerun a test or something. To handle these situations, we
will store digests of all transitive dependency manifests and repin if any of them change.

Dependencies are always pinned as a group and are only repinned in two situations:

1. The user explicitly asks for it by running `sui move update-deps`. This command will repin all

>    dependencies.

Reviewer: We simplified this to avoid the complexity of repinning a single dependency and figuring out what to do for that single dependency's transitive dependencies.

We could maybe be a little more flexible by allowing you to repin dependencies for a single environment; I don't think it would cause the same problems since we're still repinning an entire dependency graph. However, I don't think it's worth the extra effort

Author: Agreed!

2. The user modifies a `Move.toml` file in their dependency tree. We detect this by comparing
   the `pinned.environment.ID.manifest_digest` field of the lockfile of the project being built to the manifest
   file of the corresponding dependency.

Note: we had considered only repinning the dependencies that had changed and allowing the user to
repin only specific deps, but this leads to a lot of confusing corner cases. This is consistent with
the philosophy is that pinning is a mechanism for reliable rebuilding and not for dependency version
management - if a user cares about the exact version of a dependency then they can indicate that by

> referring to that version in their manifest.

Reviewer: We've also discussed solving other problems by allowing multiple source packages for the same on-chain package; this would also simplify the transitive dependency repinning, which would allow us to do repinning package-by-package. Maybe we should actually keep the old design here given that solution

    - recursively repin dependencies
        - note that we will need to pay attention to `use-environment` here
    - record FS path, pinned dep info, manifest digest

3. check for conflicts
    - if a node doesn't have a published id for a given network, warn: you won't be able to publish

    - if two nodes have same original id and same published id (but different source), choose one
      using heuristics. E.g. choose a source dep over a bytecode dep. Maybe also warn?

    - if two nodes have same original id and different published id for a given network, there is a
      conflict - warn

4. rewrite the dependency graph to the lock file

## Invariants

To the best of our ability, we establish the following invariants while constructing the package
graph:

 - there is a node in the `pinned` section having an ID that matches the package name and a `source`
   field containing exactly `{ local = "." }`; we call this the "root node"

 - the dependency graph in `pinned` is a DAG rooted at the root node.

 - every entry in `pinned` has a different `source`

 - For each node `p` in the `pinned` section of `Move.lock`:

>      - `p.manifest_digest` is the digest of `Move.toml`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - `p.manifest_digest` is the digest of `Move.toml` for the corresponding package
```

    > mainnet, but package foo is published at a different address according to its Move.lock file.
    > Consider removing the published-at field for foo from your Move.toml file

- If two dependencies in the graph have the same original ID but different published addresses, then
  there is a conflict - they are referring to different versions of the same package.

    > Error: packages foo and bar depend on different versions of baz
    >
    >
    > You must choose a specific version of `baz` by giving an override dependency:
    >
    > [dependencies]
    > baz = { <info for latest of the conflicting versions>, override = "true" }
    >

- TODO: If two deps have the same published addresses, then we have two source packages claiming to match
  the same on-chain package. This could happen if one is a bytecode dependency and the other is a
  source dependency. We need to figure out how to disambiguate

> 

Reviewer: We should update this based on recent discussions - we just build with the different source packages

Author: I updated the text there.

accidentally publishing an alpha version to the beta address, for example).

Although we certainly want to remove `--with-unpublished-deps` (which has bad semantics), there is a

> useful feature we might provide `--publish-unpublished-deps=env_name`. This would work by recursively

Reviewer: I was thinking about this some more and I feel like we haven't settled the question about how to handle ephemeral environments. In particular, we need to know what deps to use even if we're not publishing unpublished deps.

One new idea that comes to mind is that we add a section for ephemeral environments to the manifest, and each ephemeral environment must refer to a non-ephemeral environment. For example, something like
```
[test-environments]
localnet = "mainnet"
```
This would indicate that when building / publishing for localnet you use all the deps for mainnet, but you persist the addresses in `.Move.localnet.lock`. This kind of thing could also be used to define test environments, which we've talked about.

ephemeral environments would have to be package local (i.e. they can't be referred to in `use-environment` sections). It's unclear whether you should be allowed to use dep-replacements for them (I'm thinking it maybe makes sense though?)

Author: Let's add this in another PR so not to overfill this one with different topics.
